1. What is difference between Git &  GitHub.
Git is a version control system and a repository to store source code and keep track of it.
Github is a cloud-based hosting service that allows you to manage git repositories. 


2. What is difference between Git Clone & Checkout.
Git clone is to fetch repositories from git server to local repository.
Git checkout is to checkout to the specified branch.


3. What is difference between Git pull & push.
Git pull pulls the code from the remote repository to local repository and updates the local repository to the latest commit.
Git push pushes the code from local repository to remote repository. It also checks the conflicts before pushing the code to remote repository.


4. What is difference between Git fetch & pull.
Git fetch downloads commits, files and refs from remote repository to local repository.
Git pull pulls the code from remote repository to local repository with the latest commit.


5. What is Git merge?
Git merge is a unidirectional merge code from source directory to current checkout directory.


6. What is process and port?
Process is a copy of program. A PID is assigned by the operating system each time a new process is made.
A port is a logical entity used as a part of communication. The port number identifies which port that process is using to communicate.


7. What is Continuous Integration , Continuous Delivery and Continous Deployment?
Continuous integration is the process to merge the changes back to the main branch as often as possible.
Continuous delivery is an extension of continuous integration to make sure that you can release new changes to your customers quickly.
Continuous deployment is a process of automatically deploying code to production after each codecommit and build.

8. What are various HTTP methods?
HTTP methods are used to communicate server for different activities like
POST - Create / Insert 
GET - Retrive / Select
PUT - Update 
DELETE - Delete


9. What are Query parameters and Path parameters in HTTP GET method?
Path parameters are variable parts of a URL path. They are typically used to point to a specific resource within a collection, such as a user identified by ID. A URL can have several path parameters, each denoted with curly braces { } .
Query Parameter are set of perameters attached to the end of the URL. They help to retrieve data and performs actions based on inputs passed by user (after ?).

10. What is Jenkins.
Jenkins is an open source automation server which enables developers around the world to reliably build, test, and deploy their software.


11. What are Jenkins plugins.
Plugins are the primary means of enhancing the functionality of a Jenkins environment to suit organization- or user-specific needs. There are over a thousand different plugins which can be installed on a Jenkins controller and to integrate various build tools, cloud providers, analysis tools, and much more.


12. What is maven and what is maven install?
Apache Maven is a popular build tool, that takes your project's Java source code, compiles it, tests it and converts it into an executable Java program: either a . jar or a . war file. mvn clean install is the command to do just that.
Maven install frames a dependency tree based on the project configuration pom. xml on all the sub projects under the super pom. xml (the root POM) and downloads/compiles all the needed components in a directory called . m2 under the user's folder.

13. What is the difference between > and >> redirection operators in Linux?
> operator is used for over writing the file
>> operator is used for appending/appending the text to the file.


14. what is the difference between unit testing and integration testing ?
Unit testing is done by the developer himself on the code he developed.
Integration testing is the process of testing the intergration of 2 or more units/modules.


15 what is difference between .jar and .war files?
.jar file is used for stand alone applications which are deployed in local computer.
.war file is used for embedded/distributed  applications which can be deployed in webserver


16. what is maven update ?
Maven update will make sure that all referenced dependencies are there, as well as clean the project to make sure that they are included correctly.


17. what is difference between web server and app server?
Webserver executes code from HTTP request.
Application server generates dynamic content using business logic.


18. What is executor in Jenkins?
A Jenkins executor will allow to a build to run in a build server. It can have a PID (Process ID) for each build.


19. What is the difference between the jenkins node and executor ?
Jenkins Node is a machine which is part of Jenkins environment which is capable of executing Projects.
Controller and Agents are considered to be Nodes.
Jenkins executor will allow to a build to run in a build server.



20.diff between freestyle jobs and pipeline jobs?
Pipeline jobs helps Jenkins to support continuous delivery. The Pipeline plugin was built with requirements for a flexible, extensible, and script-based Continous Delivery workflow capability.
A freestyle job in Jenkins is a job that spans multiple operations. It can be a build, a script run, or even a pipeline.
 
 

21. What is groovy?
Apache Groovy is a Java-syntax-compatible object-oriented programming language for the Java platform. It is both static and dynamic language with features similar to those of Python, Ruby and Smalltalk.


22. what is DSL in jenkins?
DSL - Domain Specific Language. Pipelines are Jenkins jobs enabled by the pipeline plugin. They are built with simple text scripts that use Pipeline DSL based on groovy programming language.Jenkins file can be written using Declarative and Scripted Pipelines. Declarative Pipeline is a more recent feature of Jenkins Pipeline which provides richer syntactical features over Scripted Pipeline syntax, and is designed to make writing and reading Pipeline code easier.

 
23. what is dependency management system in maven?
Maven helps in managing dependencies for multiple projects and applications that consists of hundreds of modules by defining, creating and maintaining reproducable builds with well defined classpaths and library versions.
 
 
24. What is Stage in Jenkins pipeline?
Stage is a Jenkins pipeline process containing different series of steps in Jenkins like Build, Test and deploy.
Executor is a slot for execution of work defined by a Pipeline or Project on a Node.
A Node may have zero or more Executors configured which corresponds to how many concurrent Projects or Pipelines are able to execute on that Node.



25. What is difference between Controller, Agent and Executor in Jenkins?
Controller is the central coordinating process which stores configuration, loads plugins, and renders the various user interfaces for Jenkins.
An agent is a machine, or container, which connects to a Jenkins controller and executes tasks when directed by the controller.


26. What is Master-Slave Architecture in Jenkins?
Jenkins use Master-Slave Architecture to manage distributed builds. In this architecture Master and Slave communicate through TCP/IP protocol.
Jenkins server is the Master. It handles jobs like Scheduling builds, dispatching builds, monitoring slaves, recording and presenting build results and so on.
A Master Instance of Jenkins can also execute build jobs directly.
A slave is a Java executable that runs on remote machine. Jenkins Slaves hears requests from Jenkins Master instance. Slaves can run on vareity of OS.
The job of a Slave is to do as they are told to, which involves executing build jobs dispatched by the Master. We can also configure a project to always run on a particular Slave machine or a particular type of Slave machine, or simply let Jenkins pick the next available Slave.



27. What are pipeline Steps in Jenkins?
A step in Jenkins is a single task that executes a specific process at a defined time. The pipeline steps are Build, Test, Deploy and Release.



28. What is bat and sh steps in Jenkins pipelines?
bat is windows batch script
sh is shell script

 
29. What is IAAS, PAAS, and SAAS?
IAAS - Infrastructure as a service is a cloud based service such as storage, networking and virtualization.
PAAS - Platform as a service is a cloud based service with hardware and software tools available over the internet.
SAAS - Software as a service is a cloud application service that utilises the internet to deliver applications which are managed by third party vendors.
SaaS applications run directly through your web browser, which means they do not require any downloads or installations on the client side.


30. what is shared responsibility model?
???????????????????????


31. What is ssh and ssh port?
The SSH command provides secure encrypted connection between 2 hosts over an insecure network. 
Default SSH port is 22. To change the port number from default we can use port numbers from 1024 to 32767.

32. What are reserved Ports 1024(0-1023) ?
Ports 0-1023 are called system ports or well-known ports. These ports allows client applications to easily locate the corresponding server application processes on other hosts.


33. How many ports are there? 
2^16 = 65,536(0-65535) 



34. What is IAAS and what is the most famous IAAS provider? AWS (EC2 container - Linux machines)
IAAS - Infrastructure as a service is a cloud based service such as storage, networking and virtualization. It is a pay-as-you-go model.
Top Ten IAAS providers

Amazon EC2
Google Compute Engine
DigitalOcean
Azure Virtual Machines
Virtual Machine Manager
Hostwinds
Alibaba Elastic Compute Service
OVHcloud
Azure Linux Virtual Machines
Netrepid


35. What is PAAS and what is the most famous PAAS provider? PCF and Elastic Bean Stalk?
PAAS - Platform as a service is a cloud based service with hardware and software tools available over the internet.
Top PAAS providers

Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic Beanstalk. 
Oracle Cloud Platform (OCP) 
Google App Engine. 
Microsoft Azure. 
Salesforce aPaaS. 
Red Hat OpenShift PaaS.
Mendix aPaaS. 
IBM Cloud Platform.

36. What is SAAS and what are examples?
SAAS - Software as a service is a cloud application service that utilises the internet to deliver applications which are managed by third party vendors.
SaaS applications run directly through your web browser, which means they do not require any downloads or installations on the client side.
Popular SAAS examples

Salesforce.com. 
Microsoft Office 365. 
Box. 
Google Apps. 
Amazon Web Services. 
Concur. 
Zendesk. 
DocuSign.